.TH APPHBD 8 "12th May 2004"
.SH NAME
apphbd \- Application Heartbeat Monitor for High-Availability Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B apphbd
.nh
.RI "[ -srkdh ] [ -c configure file ]"
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBapphbd\fP is a basic application heartbeat monitor daemon for 
Linux-HA. A group of Application Heartbeat APIs are defined for 
this heartbeat monitoring service. Applications may register
with the daemon in order to be monitored. If an application fails 
to send a heartbeat within the specified interval, the daemon will 
log an event.
.PP
apphbd may use watchdog timer to monitor itself.
.PP
apphbd extends its functionality by using plugins. Currently a plugin
\fBrecmgr\fP is implemented to notify Recovery Manager daemon if some events
(specified in apphb_notify.h) happen (e.g. an application fails to heartbeat).  
.PP
The Recovery Manager daemon \fBrecoverymgrd\fP receives notification from recmgr
plugin, then it tries to execute recovery scripts as configured. See
recoverymgrd default configure file recoverymgrd.conf for detail.
.PP
recoverymgrd registers itself with apphbd as a client application. apphbd should
be started first with plugin recmgr loaded. Then configure and start recoverymgrd.
.PP
For details relating to the Application Heartbeat API, see
.BR apphb.h
\.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.IP -s  
Show the status of apphbd, running or stopped. 
.IP -k
Stop (kill) the daemon
.IP -r 
Restart the daemon. apphbd will reload configure file when restarted.
.IP -d
Set debug level
.IP -h
Show help message
.IP "-c configure file"
Configure file for apphbd. Default configure file is \fB./apphbd.cf\fP.
User can configure debug setting, log file, watchdog setting, 
plugins and real time setting. For details, see sample configure file apphbd.cf.
.PP
.SH FILES
.I /var/run/apphbd.pid  
Default PID file.
.PP
.I apphbd.cf  
Default configure file for apphbd. apphbd searches the file in its working directory.
This sample configure file is installed together with other Heartbeat documents.
.PP
.I apphb.h
Header for Application Heartbeat API. 
.PP
.I recoverymgrd.conf
Default configure file for recoverymgrd. recoverymgrd searches the file in its 
working directory. Other configure file can also be specified in the command line.
This sample configure file is installed together with other Heartbeat documents.
.PP
.I /usr/lib/heartbeat/plugins/AppHBNotification
Directory contains plugins for apphbd.

.SH SEE ALSO
heartbeat(8)

.SH DOCUMENTATION
More information may be found at http://www.linux-ha.org.

.SH AUTHORS
.nf
apphbd - Alan Robertson <alanr@unix.sh> et al.
recoverymgrd - Andrea Brugger <andrea.l.brugger@intel.com> et al.
man page - Andrea Brugger <andrea.l.brugger@intel.com>
         - Adam Li <adam.li@intel.com>
.fi

