.TH CL_STATUS 1 "12th May 2004"
.SH NAME
cl_status \- Check Status of the High-Availability Linux (Linux-HA) Subsystem
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cl_status
.nh
.RI "<sub-command>" "[<options>] [<parameters>]"
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBcl_status\fP is used to check the status of the High-Availability Linux Subsystem

.SH SUB-COMMANDS
.TP
\fBhbstatus\fP
Indicate if heartbeat is running on the local system.
.TP
\fBlistnodes\fP
List the nodes in the cluster
.TP
\fBnodetype\fP \fITYPE\fP
List the nodes of the given type.
Currently the available types are ping and normal.
.TP
\fBlisthblinks\fP \fINODENAME\fP
List the network interfaces used as heartbeat links.
Nodename should be as per the ha.cf file for the cluster.
.TP
\fBhblinkstatus\fP \fINODENAME LINKNAME\fP
Show the status of a heartbeat link.
Nodename should be as per the ha.cf file for the cluster.
Linkname should be as per the output of the listhblinks subcomand.
.TP
\fBclientstatus\fP \fINODENAME CLIENTID [TIMEOUT]\fP
Show the status of heartbeat clients. 
Nodename and Client-ID should be as per the ha.cf file for the cluster.
Timeout is in milliseconds, the default is 100ms.
.TP
\fBrscstatus\fP
Show the status of cluster resources.
Status will be one of: local, foreign, all or none.
.TP
\fBhbparameter -p\fP \fIPARAMETERNAME\fP
Retrieve the value of cluster parameters.
The parameters may be one of the following, however some parameters
which have not been specified may not retrieved:
.RS 1i
apiauth,
auto_failback,
baud,
debug,
debugfile,
deadping,
deadtime,
hbversion,
hopfudge,
initdead,
keepalive,
logfacility,
logfile,
msgfmt,
nice_failback,
node,
normalpoll,
stonith,
udpport,
warntime,
watchdog
.RE

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB-m\fP
Make the output more human readable.
The default output should be easier for scripts to parse.
Available with all commands.
.TP
\fB-p\fP
List only 'ping' nodes.
Available with hbstatus sub-command.
.TP
\fB-n\fP
List only 'normal' nodes.
Available with hbstatus sub-command.

.SH SEE ALSO
heartbeat(8)

.SH DOCUMENTATION
More information may be found at
.UR http://www.linux-ha.org/
http://www.linux-ha.org/
.UE

.SH AUTHORS

cl_status - Sun Jiang Dong
.UR mailto:sunjd@cn.ibm.com
<sunjd@cn.ibm.com>
.br
.UE
linux-ha - Alan Robertson
.UR mailto:alanr@unix.sh
<alanr@unix.sh>
.UE
\fIet al\fP.
.br
man page - Horms
.UR mailto:horms@verge.net.au
<horms@verge.net.au>
.UE

