.TH HB_STANDBY 1 "9th August 2005" 
.SH NAME
hb_standby \-  hb_standby is a simple linux-ha shell script. It issues a failover from the node where it is running to the other node, if available.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B hb_standby
.nh
.RI [all|foreign|local|failback]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
The full path is usually /usr/lib/heartbeat/hb_standby. 
To get a list of the options to hb_standby issue the command, 
\fB "/usr/lib/heartbeat/hb_standby --help" \fP. 
NOTE: For historical reasons, unlike most scripts where failure to specify an option 
gives you the list of possible options, failure to provide an option to hb_standby 
is equivalent to "hb_standby all". 

The meaning of the options is relative. For this sample haresources file: 

nodea drbddisk::drbd0 Filesystem::/dev/drbd0::/local/groups::ext3 10.0.0.1 smb

nodeb drbddisk::drbd1 Filesystem::/dev/drbd1::/local/ldap::ext3 10.0.0.2 ldap

.TP
\fBhb_standby local\fP
When run on nodea, means migrate any resources that nodea is the preferred node for. 
In this case Samba would be shutdown, the IP address 10.0.0.1 would be released, 
/local/groups would be unmounted, /dev/drbd0 would be placed into secondary and 
nodeb would take all these services over. 
When run on nodeb, OpenLDAP would shutdown, 10.0.0.2 would be released, 
/local/ldap would be unmounted, /dev/drbd1 would be placed into Secondary mode 
and nodea would take over all these services. 

.TP
\fBhb_standby foreign\fP
When run on nodea, means migrate any resources that nodea is NOT the preferred node for.
In this case OpenLDAP would shutdown, 10.0.0.2 would be released, /local/ldap would be unmounted, 
/dev/drbd1 would be placed into Secondary mode and nodeb would take over all these services. 
When run on nodeb, Samba would be shutdown, the IP address 10.0.0.1 would be released, 
/local/groups would be unmounted, /dev/drbd0 would be placed into secondary 
and nodea would take all these services over. 

.TP
\fBhb_standby all\fP
Regardless of which node it's run on means to release all resources so the other node takes over all resources. 

.TP
\fBhb_standby\fP
Without an argument is the same as "hb_standby all" 

.TP
\fBhb_standby failback\fP
Same as "hb_standby foreign" 

.SH SEE ALSO
hb_takeover(1), heartbeat(8), cl_status(1)

.SH DOCUMENTATION
More information may be found at
.UR http://www.linux-ha.org/hb_5fstandby
http://www.linux-ha.org/hb_5fstandby
.UE

.SH AUTHORS

linux-ha -- Alan Robertson
.UR mailto:alanr@unix.sh
<alanr@unix.sh>
.UE
\fIet al\fP.

man page -- Guochun Shi
.UR mailto:gshi@ncsa.uiuc.edu
<gshi@ncsa.uiuc.edu>
.UE

